                           ##############
                           midiIn Windows
                           ##############

   There are five midiIn windows: Main window, Sample details window,
Envelope window, Scope window and MIDI Monitor window. All windows
(except Main window) may be open or closed. Closing Main window
quits midiIn. You can toggle between Main, Bank and Envelope with
TAB key, or choose the window with right Amiga + 1,2,3,4,5 keys.
   'Esc' key closes active window (except Main window, of course).
   Position and size of all windows are saved with the Save settings
function if the <Save layout> flag in the <Settings> menu is checked.

   There is an additional Advanced Settings window open by right
Amiga + p.


Main window
^^^^^^^^^^^

   On the top of the midiIn main window there is a MIDI keyboard.
On this keyboard You can select ranges of banks, base notes and play
samples with mouse if the Midi control is turned off (see <How to
work with midiIn>).  Incoming NoteOn messages are displayed on this
keyboard highlighting the corresponding keys.
   In a box under the keyboard appears the note and MIDI number of
selected key, incoming NoteOn message, or base note of selected
bank.
   To the right there are four important gadgets: Edit range (it
turns on/off the range edit mode), Midi control (turns on/off MIDI
control of midiIn), Audio (it allocates/frees audio channels) and
Follow (turns on/off the Follow mode).
   If MIDI control is turned off You can play samples with a mouse
clicking on keyboard (sample range is not taken into consideration -
You can play on the whole keyboard), or with Enter key - playing the
base frequency.
   Below there is the bank description section (the biggest part of
window), and the Instrument List (on the right).
   In the bank description section there is the Instrument (sample)
name in a box and a big Free gadget. This gadget removes sample from
active bank (the sample still remains in the Instrument list and
other parameters of bank are not changed, so You can easily exchange
one sample with another from the list). There are also slider
gadgets for Midi channel, Bank priority, Fine tune and Mute Groups,
gadgets for sample duration mode, Loop, Mono and Base key - all described
in <How to use midiIn> chapter.
   The Instrument List is described in <the same chapter>.
   The Reload gadget placed below the Free gadget reloads sample
in active bank from disk. If You want to edit the sample You use in
external sample manipulation program, You can do it, and after
saving Your changes back to disk You have to reload it using this
gadget. There is also a Reload All entry in Project menu, which
causes midiIn to reload all samples.


Details window
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   At the top there are some important informations about sample
loaded to active bank: base frequency (read from the sample file),
duration of sample played with its base frequency, and full path to
sample file.

   Below, You can change essential parameters of the sample. These 
are:

 - Offset - this allows You to select from which moment the sample
   starts. You can choose between 0 ms (from the beginning) and 3000
   ms (from the 3rd second of sample). If You select bigger offset
   than sample duration (seen in the upper right corner of this
   window) the sample isn't played.
   Offset is scaled in miliseconds and may value from 0 ms to 3000 ms
   ( = 3 s ). This time values are correct only for base frequency of
   the sample - they get shorter as You play the sample higher, and
   longer as You play lower than the base frequency.
   With Offset You can achieve various interesting and useful
   effects: cut the unwanted miliseconds of silence before drum hit,
   fix the attack of a base drum by cutting first 3-4 miliseconds,
   or even make drumloop start from snare - all without leaving
   midiIn and using external sample processor.

 - Volume (%) - sets the Volume of sample; note that it works in
   real time - You can alter this parameter while playing and hear
   the difference as You move mouse! 100 means normal volume,
   exactly the same loudness as the original sample. You can choose
   between 0 (no sound at all) and 200 (200 % of original volume).
   There are two gadgets near the slider: "Max" gadget calculates
   the maximum volume without distorting the sample (so it will be
   more that 100 only for samples in which no data byte has maximum
   value), "Nor" gadget sets volume to 100.

   *** Note about volume: using standard Amiga audio with 14 bit
       output disables hardware volume control of sound. Therefore
       samples are recalculated in realtime to achieve requested
       volume. Lower volume means worse quality, because of bit
       resolution.

 - Velocity - how much velocity from NoteOn message affects sample
   volume. If set to 0 sample is always played with maximum (set in
   Volume field) volume. If set to 100 the volume depends on
   velocity. Maximum velocity means maximum possible volume, minimum
   (0) velocity means no sound at all.

 - Aftertouch - how much the Aftertouch message affects the sample
   being played. If set to 100 it lets You control dynamically
   volume of played sound by pressing and depressing the key. This
   is a VERY COOL function, especially if You play some groovy loops
   and experiment with Aftertouch - sounds like DJ tricks with mixer
   faders. Check it out by Yourself!

 - Panorama - nothing more, nothing less; -128 is maximum left, 0 is
   center, 128 is maximum right; there is a 'Center' gadget under
   the slider

 - AutoPan - this spreads the sample in panorama. If set to maximum,
   sample played on the upper edge of range will be moved to right
   channel, and sample played on the lower edge of the range - to
   the left channel. If set to 0, samples will be placed depending
   on Panorama slider no matter where played on the keyboard.

 - midi Volume - decides if the active bank's volume depends on MIDI
   Volume Controller; if yes, then maximum MIDI volume (127) means
   volume set by You in this window; volume = 0 means no sound

 - midi Pan - decides if the actives bank's panorama depends on MIDI
   Panorama Controller; if yes, then Pan in the middle means
   panorama set by You in this window, maximum left means maximum
   left, maximum right means maximum right;
   Panorama = 63 OR 64 means the middle. 0 is maximum left, 127 is
   maximum right

 - Pitch Bender note range - another COOL FEATURE - realtime pitch
   shift controlled by MIDI joystick; set the amount of semitones to
   transpose (maximum is 12, what means one octave).
   Remember, that Pitch Bend is a channel message, so it affects all
   samples on the channel You send it on.

   Due to processor power limitations this function may mute sound
   sometimes during fast joystick movements.


Envelope window
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   This is a standard ADSR (Attack, Decay, Sustain, Release)
envelope, like the ones You can find in most synthesisers. In case
You don't know: Attack means how fast after pressing the key volume
reaches maximum. Decay says how fast will the volume change from
maximum (attack) level to Sustain level. Volume stays on the Sustain
level until the key is released. Release is time from releasing
the key (Note Off) to total lack of sound.

   Attack, Decay and Release are measured in seconds (max 25.5 sec),
Sustain is measured in percents (%).

   Edition is very easy and intuitive. You change the parameters
dragging the corresponding parts of the envelope with mouse.
Movement to the right increases the parameters (A, D and R),
movement to the left decreases them. You can set the Sustain level
just by clicking on the desired level on the Sustain field
(the big "X").
  The alternative way of editing the envelope is to press and keep for a
while LMB for decreasing or RMB for increasing specific field.

Scope window
^^^^^^^^^^^^

   This is a nice scope. It shows actual waveform played by both
audio channels. The Scope has the lowest priority in midiIn system,
so it may freeze sometimes during heavy mixing.
   If audio channels are not allocated, scope is empty. If channels
are allocated, two lines representing two channels appear.
   Try to make the Scope window full screen! (if You have enough CPU
power...)


Monitor window
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   In this window You can see the values of midi Volume and Panorama
controllers and Pitch Bender message. You can switch between these
three possibilities using the 'ctrl' gadget. Of course, the values
are shown in real time.
   The values are shown in 16 rows, for 16 midi channels.


Advanced window
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   You open this window by choosing "Advanced..." from the Settings
menu of the midiIn Main window, or by pressing right Amiga + p keys.
   In this window You can set the mixing frequency, the number of
virtual audio channels (max polyphony), Amiga audio filter, MIDI
channels and messages received by midiIn and MIDI messages source.

   Advanced window is divided to two parts - upper, smaller part
controls audio output settings, the lower, bigger part controls MIDI
input settings. Each part has its own Undo gadget bringing back
situation from last Save defaults function. Usually, if You don't
save settings it brings back situation from starting midiIn, even if
You loaded settings with project. In case You load a project with
unwanted settings pressing these Undo buttons will bring back the
previous situation.

   More about mixing frequency and virtual channels can be found in
the <Sample playback> chapter.

   You can choose which MIDI messages and from which MIDI channels
are received by midiIn by selecting the appropriate gadgets.
   More about MIDI sources can be found in <MIDI implementation>
chapter.
